[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>KAEDRICH OLSEN:
All of the people
in the new agey
spiritual communities
are talking about
lightworkers and I'm like,
no, I'm a shadow worker.
[LAUGHTER]
Sometimes we have
paranormal attachments
that give us a feeling
that we can't describe.
And that's a critical
part of shadow work.
In the acute moment
you can pair your anger
coming from the brainstem with
the prefrontal cortex, which
is connected to higher
self, to use that anger
energy in a very positive way.
Oh, just throw more peace,
love, and light at it.
Call on the angels.
It'll go away.
And it's like--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: That
is not necessarily true.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about our dark secrets
that we keep from ourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think it's fair
to say that everyone
would prefer to see
themselves as a worker
on the side of light.
But Kaedrich Olsen says this
is only half of our story.
He calls himself
a shadow worker,
because like it or not, we each
have a shadow that influences
our own conscious behavior.
Not me, Kaedrich?
[LAUGHS]
>>OLSEN: Of course, not.
>>REGINA: Not me.
Really?
[LAUGHTER]
>>OLSEN: We all do.
One way or another we all do.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I mean it's that
pesky little subconscious just
poking through all the time
whether we like it or not.
And I had a very
interesting discussion--
before we launch in--
with someone recently
about the subconscious
mind, about emotion
versus feeling, and talking
about emotion as a chemical
response.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Being driven from
our survival mechanism,
coming from the
subconscious mind.
And that can have a
lot of dark stuff in it
because we've been through
a lot of dark stuff, right?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: So give
your own impression
of where that stuff's
coming from before we
get into the rest of the story.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
And it's good to differentiate
emotion from feeling.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>>OLSEN: Because,
really, the way I
look at it, information,
energy, emotion and feelings,
they're all the same thing.
They're just variations upon it.
And like you said, the
emotions are in the body.
There's a biochemistry going on.
Every emotion has
a chemistry to it.
But there's sometimes feelings
that we don't have words to.
>>REGINA: And that's
much more ephemeral.
You don't feel things
squirting out through your body
and freaking you
out or you know.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's different.
>>OLSEN: And in the
realm that I work with
or the paranormal
and the shadow stuff,
sometimes we have
paranormal attachments
that give us a feeling
that we can't describe.
And that feeling can then
elicit certain emotions.
So it really comes to being
aware of, what am I feeling?
What am I experiencing?
What is this emotion
that's going on?
And if you can put a
word to it, that's great.
If you can't, that's
OK, too, as long
as you're aware of
the experience of it.
And that's a critical
part of shadow work
is being able to feel
it and be aware of it.
>>REGINA: So why did you decide
to call yourself a shadow
worker, because you
decided you're just-- oh,
just come out and say it.
I'm a shadow worker.
But that's because it's
taking people to light.
You tell us.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
It started off tongue-in-cheek.
But then, again,
that's sometimes
how my psychic abilities work.
I've noticed when I
was a kid I would just
say this weird off-the-cuff
thing that just meant nothing
to me, but their eyes would go
big and their jaw would drop.
And so I used to just
play around with that.
And because I was
doing shadow work,
and all of the people in the
new agey spiritual communities
are talking about
lightworkers, and I'm like,
no, I'm a shadow worker.
[LAUGHTER]
Because I work on the dark side
of spirituality to help people
find their light.
And it started off kind of
just tongue-in-cheek humorous.
And then I went, wait a minute,
there's some truth to this.
And I'm like, OK,
let's stick with it
and follow through with it,
because I think that was just
my higher being speaking
through me in a way
that the ego wasn't
getting attached to it
and double-guessing
and second-guessing
everything I was doing.
>>REGINA: Well, and you
are-- you're psychic.
You were raised in that
environment to foster that.
You're also a very
sensitive person.
And as we were just talking
a little bit ago off camera,
you're a caregiver by nature.
So you're an interesting
person that's
taken this on because
of your own sensitivity.
A lot of time sensitives want
to stay as far away from shadow
and darkness as possible.
So tell us a little
bit about yourself
and why you decided to
go headlong into it.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
It's because of the years
of working with people
and helping people with
their spiritual growth
and their spiritual development.
I kept seeing the same
blocks, the same patterns
over and over and over again.
And I'm like, what's
going on here?
Sometimes it would
be like angry.
They say, OK, I need to be this
spiritual, highly enlightened
person, but yet I still
get angry about this
and I get angry about that.
So therefore, I'm not really
doing my spiritual work.
And I went, doesn't
make sense here.
And so I started
digging into that.
And I'm like, wait a minute,
the anger is not the shadow.
The fear of expressing
your anger, the inability
to express it or even
thinking that you're not
a spiritual person because you
have anger is the shadow stuff.
>>REGINA: There's raw
truth in an angry response.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Now, we don't want
to live there and have it
toxify our whole bloodstream.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
>>REGINA: However, I
think it's certainly
a good indication
there's something
that needs to be looked at.
>>OLSEN: And in an acute
moment, when something
needs to be dealt with here and
now, needs something to happen,
you can pair your anger
coming from the brainstem
with the prefrontal cortex,
which is your higher executive
functioning which is
connected to higher self,
to use that anger energy
in a very positive way,
in a very good outcome in a
way that actually helps boost
your spiritual growth.
And I realized that.
I saw that over and over again.
A lot of people
thinking they don't
deserve these good things,
they don't deserve that.
They're holding themselves back.
Or in the paranormal
world, negative paranormal
interactions happening, thought
forms, bad juju in the house.
They're trying to do
manifestation work
and it just falls apart.
I'm seeing the same
patterns and I'm like, OK,
we need to get to the
root of what this is.
And of course, I saw the typical
place of working was like,
oh, just throw more peace,
love, and light at it,
just be moving to
your higher self
and take the peace, love,
and light of higher self,
call on the angels,
it'll go away.
Just work through that.
And it's like--
>>REGINA: My observation is
that is not necessarily true.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And then I came across
the crazy notion
of why don't you just
make friends with it?
Why don't you look at these
things that are blocking you,
look at that anger, look at that
self-deprecating belief that's
inside your mind.
Make friends with it.
Learn where it came from.
Learn how it actually is helping
you and how it did help you.
And it's interesting,
because when
I see people fighting shadows
and they go head to head,
that shadow locks in deeper
and darker and harder.
But when they sit back and they
go, OK, tell me about yourself.
What are you doing?
Why are you here?
And they feel genuine gratitude.
It's like, oh, that's
what you're all about.
That's what those
thoughts are about.
That's where they came from.
That's how you helped
me at that time.
Wow.
Thank you.
And it's that realization.
Suddenly, the pattern's
broken, the block is gone.
And they're like, wait,
what just happened?
I'm like, well, you made
friends with your shadow,
and you realized how
it was helping you,
and what the benefit to
that dark side that you
were hiding all the time was.
Now you don't have to
deal with it anymore.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: It's gone.
It's easy to work with.
>>REGINA: And what a relief.
And I've got to
say, in that sense,
I am a bit out of
my element in this
because I don't even
have bad dreams.
I almost never even
have a negative dream.
It's not that stuff
doesn't happen in life
that you have to contend with.
You have to contend with
challenging things in life.
But I don't really know--
I don't think I know
the face of darkness
at this point in my
evolution all that well.
So when you're
speaking to me, you're
really informing me
about how it works,
because I'm dealing with
some situations in which it's
very present.
And I don't really
understand it all that well.
And I think it's just not
my job this time around.
You know what I mean?
On one level, it's
just not my job.
So for me, you're actually
talking to a little bit--
certainly, a neophyte
at the very best.
So first of all, one thing
that I'm wondering about,
because I've had a conversation
with Jan Engels-Smith recently.
She's a psychologist,
does shamanic work.
And she's saying that she's
seeing an increase in what you
would call spells that people
are having over one another
or even casting consciously
over one another.
What is your own experience
in this area, before we go on?
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
I do have a background in the
Norse stuff and the runes--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>OLSEN: --and esoteric
and studying the occult--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>OLSEN: --and
getting into that.
And I realized
it's just an effect
at the collective
unconscious level
that we're inserting information
into the unconscious that we
all share.
And it might be related
to another person.
And because everything shares
resonance-- similarities
attract and perpetuate--
if this information is
put into that
collective unconscious,
this other person
will pick up on it.
And here's the key part--
they have an agreement to it.
That information gets put
out there and then they go--
and I don't mean a
conscious logical,
yes, you can have
this attachment to me,
but it's like a deeper,
emotional level.
>>REGINA: So you think on a
soul level, people have chosen--
some people-- a
spectrum of society
has chosen to
understand the dark more
and engage more deeply with
it at this period in time?
>>OLSEN: Definitely.
It's actually something that's
been around for a long time.
But because we weren't
dealing with it,
because we were projecting
it onto other people,
we were saying it's
your problem, not mine.
Oh, I'm upset about this or
I'm uncomfortable about that
and it's your problem
that it's that way.
Instead, we're now
going, wait a minute,
what's making me uncomfortable
about the way these people are
acting?
What's making me uncomfortable
about what these people are
saying and doing?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Because they're
doing what they feel is right,
so why is it bothering me?
>>REGINA: Why is it hurting you?
Why is it making you mad?
Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Mhm.
And that's where that
agreement comes in sometimes.
Let's say when we're a
child, we want something.
We want-- whatever it is.
Mom and dad goes, ugh,
what do you think,
money grows on trees?
You can't have that.
We're not the kind of people
that get these sort of things.
Or you've been a
bad boy, a bad girl,
you don't deserve to
have this sort of thing.
That's a program
running in our mind.
Now, somebody cast that
spell out there that says,
well, you're going to
be in abject poverty.
This agreement comes
and goes, well,
yeah, because I've
been a bad person.
I don't deserve to have that.
So they attach and they agree
to have that spell of poverty
that they took on to themselves
because they don't deserve it.
And then when we get
into the shadow work,
we realize mom and dad were
saying that because they
were frustrated
with their bills,
their own financial situation.
And that we can give
a different meaning
to that experience
of childhood going,
no, mom and dad were
actually trying to protect us
and trying to keep
the family safe.
And they were having a moment
of an outburst that they didn't
understand their own
emotional output,
but they were
trying to protect--
and it had nothing to do
with me being a good person
or bad person that deserved it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: And with
that realization,
that agreement's gone.
Now that spell has no
effect because they're like,
no, I don't need this anymore.
>>REGINA: Right.
Very well stated.
So let's go on to the notion
of these darker secrets
we keep from--
maybe that's me.
Maybe I'm just in denial
of all the dark stuff
underneath there.
[LAUGHS] And I certainly
can bungle things up
and make some stupid decision.
I'm perpetually
surprised by life.
So who knows what's in there.
I haven't done the
excavation you have.
So let's talk about
our dark secrets
that we keep from ourselves.
>>OLSEN: We all have them
in one form or another.
And the best way I can
describe it is when we're kids,
our soul came into this world
to live a certain purpose,
to have a certain function,
to be a certain way.
But when we grew
up in our families,
we grew up in our communities,
societies around us,
our friends, our schools,
churches, whatever.
They basically said, no, you
have to be believing this,
you have to be
thinking this, you
have to be feeling that
and acting this way.
If you don't, there's
something wrong with you.
And we're going to shame you.
We're going to
shun you from here.
We're going to punish you.
And so we took on those traits
to adapt to that society
we grew up in.
And we allowed
ourselves to create
a facade of a fake
individual who we were.
And this fake facade dictates
how reality works for us.
It tells us what
we're capable of,
what we're competent
of achieving,
what we deserve
and don't deserve.
And now we have this interaction
with this facade that
guides us through our life.
And we think, well, that's
how the world works.
These kind of people
over there, well, there
are always people like that.
And those people over
there doing that,
they're always like that.
And, oh, can these
people keep doing that?
And this person
says the same thing.
Those are all shadow things.
Even coming up to
another yellow light--
oh, what is this?
>>REGINA: There you go.
[LAUGHS] That's where
shadow comes up.
>>OLSEN: They're all
shadows in there.
They're all patterns.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
>>OLSEN: And then we
start going, OK, I
am getting to this
certain point.
I can make this
certain dollar amount.
I can make these kind of
relationships in my life.
But I can't get
to the next step.
What's going on?
Or why do all of my romantic
relationships in life
have to be with the same type
of person over and over again?
Well, that's the shadow part.
Or what is this lesson that
I keep butting my head up
against that I'm not getting?
That's the shadow part.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: More heartbreaking
is maybe somebody--
I see this with
guys, for example,
with the men that I work with.
As they were a young
boy, they loved dancing.
They loved moving their body.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and then they stop.
>>OLSEN: They got
into that flow.
And then dad's like,
what are you doing?
That's not what boys do.
>>REGINA: That's
what sissies do.
>>OLSEN: Right.
And now that's embedded
into their subconscious.
>>REGINA: It's a shame.
>>OLSEN: And it's a talent,
it's a joy that they have.
They get into their mid-30s
and they're like, oh, dancing
is sissy stuff,
it's girly stuff.
And then we start
doing shadow work
because they start
hitting, like, why
do I keep having these same
problems with my girlfriends,
with my wife, with-- why do
I have these problems at work
over and over?
And then they start talking
about moving their body
and the flow of their body.
And I'm like,
let's explore that.
Well, no, that's not what we do.
And then we go into that
and we're like, oh, right,
you do like dancing.
You do like that sense of flow.
You do like that emotion
that comes through.
You do like having that
vulnerability and being open.
And then they realize
that there's actually
strength there.
>>REGINA: Well, if they
want to really go for it,
do Argentine tango.
It's super macho.
It's led by the guy, but
you have to be in your body.
You have to really feel it.
[LAUGHS]
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And then they realized they
had this lost talent that was
their whole life-- missing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: And they
didn't have this joy.
It was just gone.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>OLSEN: And when they
finally are open up to it
and like, wait, I
can still be a man.
I can still enjoy dancing.
And they go out and
they fulfill that dance.
Suddenly, the
relationships click.
Suddenly workplace
problems are gone.
Suddenly prosperity
starts to increase.
It's like what's going on?
>>REGINA: It totally
changes everything.
Because for a lot of people,
we forget our inherent forms
of communication that we
knew when we were young.
And that was a great example.
Mine was dancing.
And I was feeling really blue.
And then finally, after years,
I thought, what is missing?
I went back to dancing.
My whole life shifted.
Everything shifted when I
went back to that movement,
to music.
And so that's just one example.
Some people play music.
Some people use art.
Some others use language.
But often we're denying our
innate, most basic sense
of communication that we
knew when we were young.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: No good.
And that's exactly
why I see the parallel
between paranormal
working and shadow working
is because when we're children,
our abilities are turned on.
We're open and aware.
We're connecting with spirits.
We can feel the energy patterns.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: But because
mom and dad and teacher
aren't acknowledging those,
we turn those things off.
Or if they start talking
about it, they're shut down.
They're laughed at.
Because I tell people the worst
part of a paranormal experience
is talking about
it with somebody.
So they turn it off.
They tune it out.
But yet, as they go into
their life, life progresses.
They get a little flash
of the paranormal.
They get this little
bit of awakening.
And they're like, what is it?
They're afraid of it.
They're scared because
they were told, well,
it's not really
your grandmother.
It's just a demon pretending
to be your grandmother.
It's like, it's not that.
And don't get the
Ouija board out
because that's a portal to hell.
Let's let that go.
[LAUGHTER]
So they start getting
these little flashes.
And they start opening up.
And they start exploring it.
And we do the shadow work.
And because every paranormal
experience is co-creative
and suddenly they
start realizing
that the more they interact
with the paranormal,
the safer it gets, the shadows
start to dissolve away.
And they realize, whoa, I had
these abilities my entire life.
And there aren't scary
demonic entities anywhere,
ever have been.
That was just me projecting
my fears outside.
Now that they're
done, it's like, oh,
this stuff is beautiful
and it's amazing.
It's not scary.
What's with all these movies?
I mean, the downside
is now they go
to watch a horror movie, that's,
like, a scary horror movie,
and it's, like,
that's really dumb.
It doesn't work that way.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: It kind
of takes that away.
But the rest is better to have.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: Well, so what
is the mechanism then?
How does one go from--
how do you begin excavating
the secrets you keep
about your own dark shadows?
>>OLSEN: It's all
about awareness.
And for the most part, shadows
will project themselves.
They project themselves onto
other people, other situations.
If you see a
coworker or a friend
have something successful happen
to them and you suddenly go--
>>REGINA: And you
don't like them.
You're jealous.
>>OLSEN: --oh, come
on, rah, rah, rah.
That's the shadow
saying, hey, here I am.
I'm ready to resolve this one
because you can do that, too.
And then we go, no, I can't.
Oh, hey, there's more
shadow for you to work with.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: And so you just
stop and you're like,
OK, wait a minute,
what is this feeling?
And you just be aware
of that feeling.
And that's all you do.
You be aware of it.
No judgment.
No criticism.
Just awareness.
>>REGINA: So once
you're aware of it,
then how does that
start transforming?
>>OLSEN: You breathe
into that awareness.
You drop your awareness into it.
And you're like, what
are you all about?
You literally have
a dialogue with it.
What are you about?
>>REGINA: Why are you
angry because someone else
has been elevated?
>>OLSEN: And where did I
learn this, especially when
did I learn this?
Because if you get the awareness
of what the shadow is and you
get the awareness of the
origin of that shadow,
you learn what it was all
about, what it was doing,
and how it was helping you,
and then you're like, oh, God,
thank you for that.
That's awesome.
Now I get what you were
protecting me from.
Cool.
And usually that's all it takes.
90% of the time just
that level of awareness
of what it is and
where it comes from,
with no judgment but gratitude,
let's it suddenly go,
well, maybe I can do
what my coworker did.
Maybe I have that
possibility, too.
Because if they did
it, I can do it, too.
I'll just do it in my own way
and I'll make it cool for me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: And suddenly that
shadow is now your best friend
helping you with that
motivation to do it
rather than preventing
you from doing it.
>>REGINA: And you also
help facilitate people
through this process.
Obviously, that's what you do.
And also, I'm thinking
of a tool that I
have used when something
is bothering me
and I need to contemplate.
Do you know Richard Rudd and
the Gene Keys by any chance?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: His book, "The
Art of Contemplation,"
is what you're talking about.
About letting
yourself take the time
to fall more and more
deeply into the feelings
without judgment,
without hurrying it,
without pushing it away.
Very similar to what
you're talking about.
And I think these--
they're not even techniques.
I think this practice
is really important now.
Because now a lot of
shadows in all of us,
in terms of these feelings
you're talking about,
are starting to
rise up, where it's
like they're being squeezed
out of us at this period
in history, right?
>>OLSEN: And I love calling
it a practice rather than
a technique.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Because a
technique is just something
you do once in a
while or whatnot.
But a practice can become
a spiritual practice.
It's something that
you do regularly.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: And this is the thing
I teach people about shadow work
is it's skill building.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: That once you
build up these skills--
let's say you are successful
in your shadow work
and suddenly you get to
this baseline of what
your life is like right now.
Shadows are cleared.
Everything's great.
You're doing great
and wonderful.
5-10 years pass
and who you are now
might not work for
who you've become.
And so the stuff that's
working for you now
and they're not shadows now
will become shadows for you
in 5 to 10 years.
So you've got the skills, now
you can raise your baseline up
here.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that makes sense.
I mean, truly,
why would you keep
incarnating if you
don't have shadow stuff,
even if, like me,
you're not particularly
introspective about it
[LAUGHS] and may not
be aware of all of them.
[LAUGHTER]
But we wouldn't be
incarnating unless we
have this that is looking
for transformation
in this process of refinement
toward that ultimate feeling
that we all are bathed
in all the time, which
is loving consciousness.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's what we're
trying to move
toward by releasing
all of this in the end.
>>OLSEN: And I will even contend
that sometimes higher self
comes here to experience this.
This is kind of the
work of Carolyn Elliott.
She talks about what if you
are this great universal cosmic
being that could be
anything, anywhere, any time.
You could experience
anything that you want to do.
But there's no conflict.
There's no turmoil.
So maybe you get a
little bit bored.
>>REGINA: Is this like going
to a horror movie for fun?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
>>OLSEN: So you said, OK, maybe
I want to come into this life
and I want to experience this.
I want to experience that and
I want to go through that.
And if you are at the
egoic level saying,
no, that's got to stop.
We can't have it.
You can't have it
when the higher self
isn't getting its fulfillment.
But if just for the
moment you can go,
all right, I'll let you have
this, I'll let you do that,
then maybe it goes away
because it's helped me develop
a new model of higher self.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: What if you're
on a roller coaster--
your day-to-day egoic self
is on a roller coaster.
And something terrible is
about to happen in your life.
And that's coming to the peak
of that first hill of the roller
coaster.
You know there's more to go.
But now you're
like, wait a minute,
I don't want to be here.
I'm not ready for this.
I can't handle this.
No, no, get me off.
Nope, I'm not ready for this.
>>REGINA: Now, now, off.
>>OLSEN: Higher self,
meanwhile, is back at the dock,
at the beginning of the ride
going, yeah, that was great.
Let's do it again.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
[LAUGHS] Yeah, we have
to understand that we
can be at counter-purposes.
Our lower mind and fear
>>OLSEN: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: So this is kind of why
you call shadow work actually
your soul's work--
soul work.
And you have a different
notion of how this all
works as a complex--
as a mind/body complex--
because it does involve our DNA.
It does involve ourselves.
It does involve
our subconscious,
our superconscious.
So go for it.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
We do have that model that we
tend to subscribe to the heart,
mind, body and soul.
And it's great.
It's effective.
But I've refined that
a little bit more
of psyche, soul,
body, and being.
The body is still the body.
It's still our physical.
It's that biochemistry that we
talked about-- the emotions,
it's the subconscious.
It holds all of those
things in the physical part.
When we have trauma,
it's locked in the body.
And we can move our body
and we can do things
with our body to release it.
But the body communicates
in a certain way
and it has a certain
way of communicating.
And so when we look at our body
as a tool of communication,
it will tell you
what our shadows are.
When you're talking
to a certain person,
you suddenly get that
gut feeling like, ooh,
I'm feeling nauseated.
What is this?
Or you're talking
to another person,
and you're relaxed and
comfortable and flowing.
That's the body giving
you subtle signals
and communicating to your
awareness of what's going on.
The psyche is a combination of
what we think and what we feel,
because sometimes
they're all connected.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: That we're
thinking these thoughts.
We have these repetitive
thoughts on replay.
emotions on replay
that all still have
the biochemical to it.
And so we can be
aware of our thoughts,
but sometimes we're not aware
of the repetitive thoughts.
We see somebody being successful
and, like, who did they
rip off to make that happen?
Who did they step
on to get there?
And like, wait--
>>REGINA: Who did
they sleep with?
>>OLSEN: Right.
Those are some
repetitive thoughts
that the shadow is, like, going
into our psyche, going, see,
you're not this
kind of a person.
You wouldn't do
those kind of things.
So that's why you're
not successful.
It's like, hmm.
>>REGINA: Hmm.
[LAUGHS]
>>OLSEN: And then
there is being which
doesn't get addressed
too much, but it's
how you are in the world,
how you exist in the world.
When you look at the people
that you keep around you,
when you look at the
repetitive situations that
are continuously
happening and say,
why does this keep
happening to me?
Why are these people
still in my life?
Why do I keep having to
experience these things over
and over again?
That is the causal body.
Because if we look at
the subtle bodies--
the mental body,
the emotional body,
all that kind of thing-- that's
the causal body interacting
with the world around
you, reflecting
what your inner world is
going on so that it reflects
to the external world.
And it will tell you
what your shadows are.
You're trying to keep doing
the same project over and over
but you keep failing
and you keep running
to the same stumbling blocks.
And you're like, all right,
I'm ready to give up.
Well, there's something
in the shadow.
And that shadow is being
reflected in the causality,
and in the being around you
and the people around you.
And when you
resolve that shadow,
it's like suddenly, oh, now
I got this job opportunity.
Now I have these
people in my life.
Where did that come from?
Well, it came from you.
It came from
shifting the shadow.
>>REGINA: So that's one
of your telltale signs.
You say when people are
searching for purpose
and meaning in life and
no matter what they do,
they keep coming
up empty-handed,
you know you've got a shadow
that you have to address.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And a lot of times that
comes from expectations.
My dad did this kind of work,
so that has to be what I do.
>>REGINA: And maybe
what you're looking
for isn't in alignment
with your soul's purpose.
And it's blocking these
things from happening, too.
It's not always a shadow, right?
>>OLSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: It can just be
your counter-purposes.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Somebody might
think, I was supposed
to be a musician in my life.
I need to be playing music.
That was my whole thing.
And it never works.
It never works.
And suddenly, they're faced
with a dark night of the soul,
everything comes
crashing in around them.
And they're, like, what?
And then they go
into pet management.
I don't know why.
>>REGINA: It's funny, I
was just thinking that.
Pet management.
Exactly.
>>OLSEN: Pet management.
And they're like,
oh, I hate this job.
Then as they're into
it more and more,
they're like, connecting--
I see this.
And suddenly it's fulfilling.
It doesn't pay the
money that they thought
it was going to pay,
but they go home
at the end of the day going,
wow, that was amazing.
That was great.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>OLSEN: Look what happened.
And now their life is
suddenly fulfilled.
And they're like, oh, I get it.
I've actually worked with
some people over the years--
it's kind of funny--
where one person was making
high six-figure income.
They did their shadow work.
And now they're making
barely above minimum wage.
But they're loving it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: Another person was
flipping burgers at a fast food
place, then suddenly they're
making six-figure incomes
and they're loving it.
I've worked with other
people that thought,
I'm here to do this great,
important, big thing.
And it's like, oh, no, I did
the great, important, big things
last time.
This is my time to just chill
out and be hedonistic and have
fun.
It's like it might not
be what you think it is.
>>REGINA: So when you
try, and try, and try,
and it fails, and
fails, and fails,
you're on the wrong path.
>>OLSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Period.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
And if you keep pursuing
that, higher self
will hit the reset
button and you
go through a dark
night of the soul.
You'll hit rock bottom.
Everything will fall apart.
And you know, that
is the greatest
gift your higher
self can give you,
even though it
sucks in the moment.
And it's terrible.
And it's horrible.
And some people just
want to escape from life
because it's so bad.
>>REGINA: And many
people now are--
the suicide rate among
young men has skyrocketed.
>>OLSEN: But if they
would just persist.
If they realized that that rock
bottom is a foundation and that
you build on that foundation.
And that's what
higher self wants.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about--
it's coming in just
thinking about it.
So Maureen Hancock--
she's talking--
she's a medium.
Talks to a lot of people from
the other side, obviously.
A lot of young men who
have taken their own lives.
And the one thing
they're saying repeatedly
is, oh, crap, if I just
waited or talked to someone.
I wish I hadn't jumped the gun.
No pun intended on that one.
And it's making me
wonder something.
So you're talking young men.
A lot of them are millennials.
Some of them are even
the oldest Zoomers now.
Now, this generation has
been defined very differently
because it was the one where
everyone's given a gold star
generation, right?
First time that really
started happening in life
where you want to encourage
everyone, and make them
feel their best and part
of, and so the competition
was lessened.
And you didn't
have to go as deep
and work as hard to get where
you wanted in certain things
because acceptance was given.
Mom and dad's house
is already available.
I'm wondering how
much that mindset
that the boomers instilled
in that generation,
trying to be helpful,
has to do with not being
able to cope with the
challenges and the shadow
side of their own being.
I mean, that's kind of
a generational question.
It's just popping to mind why
so many are killing themselves
right now.
>>OLSEN: That's one of
the things I've looked at
and working with
people over the years
is I can't find a general topic.
I can't find--
>>REGINA: There's no--
>>OLSEN: --a generational thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Because what will
be beneficial to one person
is detrimental to another.
They're just interpreting
it differently.
>>REGINA: So is it
something in the field
itself right now that's
squeezing people to this point?
>>OLSEN: Yeah, and it's just
their different personal
interpretations of
what's going on.
And so ultimately if we feel
like we're at that threshold
where we can't
handle it anymore--
and I don't care who you are
or what the situation is,
reach out to somebody like
me, reach out to somebody--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>OLSEN: --because--
>>REGINA: Don't do it.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, just don't do it
because exactly like you were
saying, if they just wait, just
hold on for that little bit
more--
>>REGINA: And that's the
message from the other side.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Something will shift.
Because look at that rock
bottom as a foundation
that you can suddenly build on.
Here's the secret to that.
Here's the big secret.
And I think this
is also what I see
as the pattern of people
saying, I can't do it anymore
because they give
up on it, is we
have the "Think and Grow Rich."
We have "The Secret,"
the law of attraction,
all of that sort of thing.
It's missing a
very vital point--
solve et coagula.
A lot of this law of
attraction stuff is coagula,
meaning we're going to
build, we're going to grow,
we're going to
build, build, build.
But if you don't have
a solid foundation
or if you've got
something already shaky,
it's going to keep
falling apart.
It's going to fall apart.
>>REGINA: Right.
You got to let go of certain
things before you can build.
>>OLSEN: And that's
where the solve comes in.
Solve is to dissolve,
to get rid of.
You've got to clear space.
So if you see those
things that keep
falling apart and falling
apart and falling apart,
let's get to the foundation.
Let's clear that space so that
you can build it and make that
a solid structure.
And sometimes that's what
that dark night of the soul,
that rock bottom is--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: --that
foundation to build it.
>>REGINA: Beautifully put.
Now, what about the case
of genuine extreme trauma
where a person has been
through extreme trauma
in their lifetime?
Now, this tweaks us
out on so many levels.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
And there's a lot
of it going around
and there has been
for a long time.
And it's something that is an
interesting dichotomy that's
out there.
Because not only
do we have trauma
of the people who are
victims, but we also
have trauma of the people who
are the perpetuators of it.
And if both are unresolved
and they're not dealt with,
we are going to have
a continuing cycle.
So we need to be able to look
at the trauma for both of them.
And when it comes to
trauma, it definitely
takes trained practitioners
to help people through it
because there are--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was
going to ask about that.
>>OLSEN: --different techniques.
EMDR, there's a lot of
different somatic techniques
that we can get into.
Neurofeedback is amazing--
>>REGINA: Yeah, it is amazing.
>>OLSEN: --for helping.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: So we definitely
need to have that.
And shadow work is adjunct
help to trauma work.
I wouldn't say shadow
work for trauma.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: Because the way we--
>>REGINA: It's not going
to replace that deep--
>>OLSEN: --do shadow work, we
can actually re-traumatize.
>>REGINA: Especially around
sexual trauma, which has been--
now we're starting to see,
as the masks come off,
and the data comes out, and
the stories come forward,
has been a deep part
of the human story
since the beginning.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Institutional
sexual abuse.
>>OLSEN: Right.
And so when we do shadow
work, when we go into,
OK, I'm having this
self-conscious feeling,
what's that all about,
why can't I perform,
or why can't I do these
things, with shadow work,
we go, OK, what is that feeling?
Let's go into that feeling.
Let's go to where I learned
where that feeling was.
And if it's sexual
trauma, ah-ah,
we don't want to go there
and do that kind of work.
We want to get the EMDR.
We want to get
the neurofeedback.
We want to get the
somatic training.
And then we can do
the shadow work.
And then we can go, OK, I see
how this was protecting me.
I see how this was helping.
They can work together.
But shadow work is really
good for spiritual growth,
for spiritual
development, for working
through blocks and patterns.
But with trauma, we
need extra help, too.
>>REGINA: Besides
deep sexual trauma,
what are some of the
other forms of trauma
that you would say-- you would
apply the same standard to
or get extra help.
>>OLSEN: Not only physical abuse
in the house, religious abuse--
you're going to hell if this
happens or that happens.
A weird little religious
abuse that's popping up now
lately is people who believe
in the rapture coming
and the kids are left at home.
They're latchkey
kids and mom and dad
are late getting home
for whatever reason.
Kids are sitting at home going,
I knew I was this bad person.
I knew I was terrible.
The rapture's happened
and I got left behind.
And it's like, wait, we
got to resolve that one.
Other trauma that does
pop up quite a bit
is people who served overseas
and served in the military,
because not only are the
things that they saw--
>>REGINA: That they did.
>>OLSEN: --but the
things that they
had to do, that they
had to do to survive.
That's that perpetrator
trauma that we have.
That the people who
are doing things--
>>REGINA: Well, you're
being ordered to.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
And you have to do it to survive
or you don't have that thought
process or to avoid it.
>>REGINA: I can't fathom.
>>OLSEN: So we come back
here and that can create
some cycles going through.
So that is a very common
one that I'm seeing,
both men and women.
>>REGINA: And now that's one you
would say go to a professional
for?
>>OLSEN: Mhm.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, and we'll
work together on that.
I absolutely will
work with that.
And it's, like, and
you need somebody
who is deeply trained in
trauma work to help with that.
It's just an and.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So I mean, I could see
where in that situation
a person might have the
spiritual awakening through why
did I allow myself to
follow an order to do this
to another human being?
Why did I allow this?
Because in the
last final moment,
I guess you could--
now, you'd be
court martialed, maybe thrown
in jail, but you could say,
I can't do it.
I won't do it.
And that's a big
deal in the military
is just you don't want
to get in that situation.
>>OLSEN: In the moment,
you don't have a choice.
You fall back to your
training without thought,
without concern or consequence.
>>REGINA: But isn't that
somewhere where someone
would go in the shadow work?
>>OLSEN: Yes, exactly.
And that will be it.
That's kind of what we would
do is in that moment, remember,
you had no choice.
You had to do that one.
And now who you are--
>>REGINA: But does part of you
feel guilty that you should
have made a different choice,
even though you really
couldn't?
>>OLSEN: Right.
You couldn't.
And that's part of what we do
is we help realize you couldn't
make a different choice.
That's the only thing
you could have done.
And now who you are today, you
can choose to be differently.
And how do you feel that
you want to atone for that?
How do you pay it forward?
Because you can't pay it back.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>OLSEN: But you
can pay it forward.
What can we do going forward?
And then that will help them
find some sense of fulfillment
and purpose, where before it was
like, I don't deserve purpose,
I don't deserve fulfillment.
But now they're
paying it forward.
How do we move
forward with this?
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
>>OLSEN: And then it's,
like, suddenly, oh, this
is how I can heal from
that and how I can help
heal the world from that, too.
>>REGINA: Right.
That's beautiful.
Let's talk about when other
beings are surfing off of you
and playing with you and
causing disturbances.
Beings who are disincarnate.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
I have learned that 90% of
our thoughts and feelings
are not our own.
And I know it's like a
big thing to think about.
But when we really
look at the world,
we are filled with energy
fields all over the place.
And all of those energy fields
have different programming
in it.
We are powerfully
creative beings as humans.
We create thought
forms all the time
based off of our persistent
thoughts or beliefs.
And our emotions will create
these thought forms that feed
back that information on us.
We create egregore with
our collective beliefs.
>>REGINA: Yes, we do.
>>OLSEN: We create
tulpas as entities
that need to-- we are
creating these things
all over the world.
>>REGINA: Explain
to people who don't
know what egregores and
tulpas are, so they know.
>>OLSEN: Great point.
An egregore is a
collectively created being
that is built up of
our continued belief.
If we believe--
this is a fun one--
if we believe that
one day of the year,
there is this entity that visits
all of our homes and delivers
presents--
>>REGINA: Santa Claus.
My favorite--
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --person.
[LAUGHS]
>>OLSEN: He delivers these
presents to all the children.
That's an egregore.
And the way that you know it
is when you have that Christmas
Eve feeling, you've got
that sense of reverence,
that sense of generosity,
there's that magic in the air.
>>REGINA: You're in the
presence of the egregore we've
co-created through this delight.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
So egregores can be
very positive things.
They can also be
very negative things,
like there are these type
of beings in this world that
are influencing our
politicians and making
certain financial
decisions for corporations.
And they're out there.
And we're creating these because
we have this constant belief
that they're out there.
And then they are out there.
>>REGINA: And we're
constantly focused that way.
>>OLSEN: Right.
And we're constantly--
and they're here--
we don't realize it, but
they might be here guiding
us to feel inadequate, to
feel that money is evil
or that these things are
terrible and awful things.
>>REGINA: Let us
handle it for you.
>>OLSEN: Right.
And a tulpa is more
of a being that
is created that has a
purpose, that you created it
so that it helps to run
the company, so to speak.
And as a company grows,
this tulpa grows.
And its purpose is to bring
more people to the company.
It can be a very
beneficial thing.
A tulpa for a company
can be a very good thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: But at the same time,
it could also be destructive.
Eat more of these hamburgers
and these French fries
over and over and
over again because it
supports-- the various things.
>>REGINA: But it's
an entity created
through our consciousness
in the most extreme form
that some of the more
skilled Tibetan Buddhists
create an actual being,
an actual person.
They manifest a being
in front of them
that they can
interact with and see.
But my understanding from
what I've read about it
is they are charged
with destroying it
after they create it.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
But in our society,
these things get
created all the time
with nobody realizing
that they've been created.
So nobody's out
there to destroy them
and sometimes they gain
their own sovereignty.
>>REGINA: That's the point.
Gaining-- yes.
And once you create
that and set it free,
you don't know
what kind of steam
it's going to pick up,
depending on the influences
of your thought and
the collective thought.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And a way I can
think about this--
and this is not an accurate
model by any means--
is we are here in third
dimension reality,
the physical world.
Our spiritual essence,
our higher being,
our spiritual existence
is fifth density,
just for sake of being.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: But this layer of
fourth density in between,
let's imagine it's
like a sandbox where
we can create all sorts
of wonderful things,
and great things,
and awesome things.
That's where the tulpa is.
That's where the
energy wells, that's
where the reality tunnels
and reality bubbles,
the egregores-- all of those
things live in that 4D reality.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>OLSEN: They're just
as real as we are.
They're just-- they're
influencing us.
But as we go through
our day-to-day life,
if we're not aware--
we come back to
awareness-- if we're not
aware of this persistent
emotional feeling that's
coming towards us is external,
we take it on as like, oh,
I'm just so depressed
all the time.
I'm just so sad.
I'm just so scared.
I'm just so angry all the time.
When it's really this thing--
>>REGINA: It's coming
from this field.
Yeah.
>>OLSEN: --where we have this
persistent thought all the time
as, like, we need to go
over there and get them
before they get us.
We need to go over there and
get them before they get us.
We got to stop this
before they get us.
>>REGINA: Not good.
>>OLSEN: That's all there.
But if we can stop,
center, focus our mind
and go, wait a minute,
that's not my thought.
Those aren't my emotions.
Why did I agree to
take on those emotions?
take those thoughts on?
Because we have to have
something internal.
There's got to be an
anchor point inside.
So that's where the
shadow work comes from.
We have to go inside and go, OK,
what part of me agreed to this
and why?
What did I gain from this?
And then suddenly
we go, OK, now I
don't need to have
that influence anymore.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: And what's
weird about this--
this casts its own problem
because shadow work
and spiritual development
can be destructive.
Because if we grew up
thinking a certain way,
believing a certain
way, and it comes
from that collective
egregore, the community
that we were a part
of and we grew up in,
we do our shadow work
and we're suddenly like--
>>REGINA: You're cast out.
>>OLSEN: --I don't
need that anymore.
>>REGINA: You don't
need it anymore.
You either cast yourself
out or you are cast out.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Let's go back
again to Santa Claus,
my favorite person.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I love the movie
"Elf" with Will Ferrell.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: But let's talk
about that for a moment.
What is created when you tell
little children about Santa
Claus and you wait with
such delight year after year
till you're somewhere five,
six, seven eight years old,
and then they say,
oh, just kidding,
there's no Santa Claus.
What does that create?
Because I know it's
devastating to most children.
It's almost a trauma--
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --to find
out that was a lie.
Why do we do this?
And how can we reframe it so
we don't traumatize people
with such a huge letdown from
the grace of Santa Claus?
>>OLSEN: I think we do
it in the first place
because it helps us
capture the magic when
we're adults, that magic we
had when we were children.
And so we want that again.
>>REGINA: Before they pulled
the rug out from under us.
>>OLSEN: Right.
They pulled the rug
out from under us.
And then we have this
collective belief, as a society,
well, when you get
to a certain age,
you just need to face
reality and toughen up and--
>>REGINA: No, you don't.
>>OLSEN: --go out and do what
the world expects of you.
And that is that ripping
the Band-Aid off.
That's one of
those multiple ways
of ripping the Band-Aid off.
And it's shock.
>>REGINA: So it's supposed to
be some kind of rite of passage
to devastate a five,
six, seven-year-old?
>>OLSEN: But instead,
like with my kids,
they know I believe
in Santa, that I
know it's still real today.
And they're aware of the
magic and the mysticism
behind what Santa is.
>>REGINA: Bingo.
That's what it is.
So instead of just
ripping the Band-Aid off,
learn a little more
about Santa Claus.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Tell them what it is.
Because now that-- my kids
know what egregores are.
They know how they work.
And they know that
Santa is a real thing
because we created it.
>>REGINA: I love it.
[LAUGHS]
>>OLSEN: And they
didn't lose that magic.
>>REGINA: I love it.
We're going to go into
one more thing before we
say, ooh, goodness, goodbye.
And that is the dark goddess
and the dark feminine energy
and how it plays.
We've been talking about
men and masculine work.
How's the dark goddess and
dark feminine play into this?
>>OLSEN: You know, actually,
how I found the dark goddess is
because of men.
A lot of the men I
worked with overseas
kept telling me about a
dark goddess showing up.
And they didn't know
what to name it.
Some of them did.
Some said, oh, it's Hecate.
Some said it's Lilith.
Some said it's Hel--
the Norse goddess Hel.
Sometimes they had a name,
sometimes they didn't.
But they kept telling me
about a female presence that's
very powerful.
Most of them are
afraid of it, that she
would show up, sometimes
be very demanding of them.
>>REGINA: Every man's nightmare.
[LAUGHTER]
>>OLSEN: And so I
had to dig into this.
And I'm like, what
is this dark goddess?
Not only working with
the guys and trying
to figure out what this was
and what she's all about,
and I realized she
is still a goddess.
And by goddess, she's
nurturing, she's caring.
She taps into resources.
She's wonderful and amazing.
>>REGINA: She's just
stirring your pot a bit.
>>OLSEN: She's stirring
your pot a little bit.
She gets you riled
up because maybe
some of that trauma, maybe
some of that dark stuff
that isn't being let go.
And we can't let go
of that if we're just
going to throw peace, love,
and light and happiness on it.
You can't do puppy
dogs and rainbows.
You have to go, I
did these things,
I thought about these
things, these things
are holding me back.
You have to get into
your own darkness.
And that's what she's all about.
She's that brutal, dark
side of the goddess that
forces you to take that deep
inner look into yourself,
that deep inner look
into your own energies
so that you can actually
heal through it.
So, yes, she's scary as heck
when she first shows up.
But when you start
to work with her
and you start to realize what
her gifts are and benefits,
you realize, no, she's this
beautiful, wanted, lovely,
awesome presence to have around.
And when we're
working with her, it's
like it eases the shadow work
so much better because she's
such a powerful resource to
helping us release shadow work.
>>REGINA: Oh, wonderful.
I just love it.
You're magical, Kaedrich.
And so any final thoughts.
We are about out of time here.
Any final thoughts on people
that are just really feeling
the weight of life and the
field and the world around them
right now.
>>OLSEN: Right.
When you're feeling
that weight of life,
I want you to just
go into that feeling.
Let yourself feel it
without any judgment,
without any criticism.
Because what if--
just what if-- that
is what your higher self wanted
to experience for right now?
What if there is
a gift into that?
And I know it's tough.
And I know it's hard.
But allow yourself to say,
what is this all about?
Why am I experiencing it?
What lessons are here for me?
And then ask it--
literally, ask it--
what is something that I
can do in the next 48 hours
to help relieve this weight,
to help relieve this tension,
so that I can go out
and do something?
And then commit to doing it.
And seeing what
happens from that.
Because that's all
it's really there
for is sometimes
that pressure is not
to keep you locked
into place, but it's
our fear of what happens when
that pressure is gone is really
what that pressure is.
So when you start
doing something,
that pressure relief
feeling like--
it's like that old
saying, it's not
our darkness we're afraid
of, it's our light.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>OLSEN: And that's
what this pressure is.
Like, wait, I can do these
things, but I'm afraid to.
And that's OK because that
fear is helping you, too.
So this is where I
go into meta shadows.
Sometimes you're looking at
one shadow, then this one,
then this one and this one.
It's like, make friends
with all of them.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
shadow has babies.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, exactly.
[LAUGHTER]
Make friends with all
of them and they'll
teach you about yourself,
what's wonderful and amazing
about yourself.
And then that's what you clue in
on and use to find your light.
>>REGINA: So be
patient with yourself.
Let yourself go into it.
No judgment of self.
>>OLSEN: Self-grace is amazing.
>>REGINA: And then, of course,
they can always call Kaedrich.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Thank you
so much, Kaedrich.
Absolutely delightful
conversation--
>>OLSEN: Thank you, too.
I love this.
>>REGINA: --about shadows.
[LAUGHTER]
You can go to kaedrich.com-- and
that's K-A-E-D-R-I-C-H .com--
to explore more
of Kaedrich's work
and also watch my former
interview with him
here on Gaia TV as well.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]